# Technical Summary

## <a name="stn_v_q"></a>Space-time numbers versus quaternions

Technically, there is _zero difference_ between these two labels.

Quaternions have a long, twisted history.  Even today, people can have strong 
opinions about quaternions.  The name in isolation of that history says "quat", 
four.  Other than that, one needs to read up on the subject.

Space-time numbers, as a label, says a bit more.  It is not simply that there 
are four equal partners, but there are the familiar three dimensions of space 
in a tense marriage with scalar time.  Space has properties that are deeply 
different from time, yet with space-time numbers, they never part.  The label 
can tie directly into the real world by pointing to events there-then, the 
"there" being space while "then" is the time.

Full disclosure: I own quaternions.com so the label quaternions is important to 
me.  I now use both words interchangeably.  Space-time numbers feels more like 
a real world term.  Quaternions as a label feels more abstract.  I find it 
helpful to have both terms in my efforts to understand the accounting system 
used by the Universe.

##Space-time numbers as the new King

Mathematical Physics is written using tensor calculus often over the field of 
complex numbers.

My own effort is to replace all such work using quaternions, a division algebra 
born to work with space-time.

It has been my experience that when someone in the literature has published 
that real-valued quaternions could not be used for a certain problem, I was 
able to find an approach that worked. This happened for representing the 
Lorentz group, for deriving the Maxwell equations, and now I have an invariance 
principle that may do the work of gravity.

In the future, I hope that an area of study will not be considered complete 
until the researchers can provide animations.

## The source of probability in quantum mechanics

Once there is some probability in quantum mechanics, so much follows. The 
riddle is why there should be any? My idea is that in high energy physics, the 
normal fundamental operations of math - addition, subtraction, multiplication, 
and division - become indistinguishable. There is either zero, the vacuum, or 
unity made up of all possible histories. The quaternion group Q8 describes the 
properties of space-time numbers.

It is my belief that the standard model of physics will need to be torn down 
and reconstructed using only the normalized quaternion group. I don't know how 
to start such a quest, so it will remain a personal belief.

